Hello everyone. Welcome to a new episode of The
Dissenter. I'm your host, as always, Ricardo Lobs, and
today I'm joined by Doctor Steven Sloman. He's professor
of cognitive and psychological sciences at Brown University, and
today we're talking about his latest book, uh, The
Cost of Conviction, How Our Deepest Values Lead Us
Astray. So Doctor Sloman, welcome to the show. It's
a pleasure to everyone.
Well, thank you very much. I appreciate the invitation.
I'm glad to be here.
Sure, so, um, what is the premise of your
book? I mean, uh, what is this idea about
conviction and people's deepest values in the book? You,
you talk about them as sacred values. I mean,
what is the premise exactly?
So the basic idea is that when people are
making decisions, there are two classes of decision-making strategies
available to them. One of them is the class
that we, uh, think that we're using all the
time, namely consequentialist decision-making strategies. So these are simply
strategies in which we consider the outcomes of our
various options. Um, BUT it turns out that we
often make decisions in a different way based on
what I call sacred values. So these are values
that don't apply to outcomes, but rather apply to
actions. So there's certain actions that we consider correct
and others that we consider incorrect, regardless of the
outcomes. And the fundamental premise of the book is
that we make decisions too often based on sacred
values, not enough based on consequences, and that this
leads to many of the world's problems.
OK, and we're certainly going to get into that,
but what are the philosophical and psychological properties of
sacred values? Please characterize them a little bit more.
So there's a long history and philosophy of the
distinction between consequentialist choice versus what's often called deontological
choice, right? So deontological choice is choosing by duty
or obligation without regard to consequences. So there's an
obvious parallel. Between the distinction between sacred values and,
and consequentialist decision strategies, and these sort of ethical
theories in philosophy, um, deontology versus consequentialism are often
the, the sort of prototypical consequentialist theory is considered
in philosophy, namely utilitarianism, right? Um. My book is
not about philosophy. It's not about ethical theory. It's
about psychology. So there's, there's lots to be said
about the right way to make an ethical decision.
Um, I say very little about that in the
book. What I focus on is the fact that
when people make decisions by sacred values, they tend
to be more absolute. They tend to be more
binary in their thinking. When they make decisions by
consequences, then they're forced to engage in a lot
of causal reasoning. How will this action, or how
will this option lead to one set of consequences?
How will another option lead to a different set
of consequences? So, consequentialist thinking tends to be much
more complex. Because when you're deciding by sacred values,
you just use this simple rule that in some
sense ignores one of the hardest aspects of decision
making, which is figuring out what the consequences are.
You don't have to think about the consequences, because
you're Just following a particular action. Like you think
abortion is wrong, so you will simply not engage
in abortion. You think any policy related to abortion
um should be determined by your sacred value that
abortion is murder. And, and so it, it obviates
a lot of thinking, essentially. And so there are
a variety of other things that go along with
that, like, for instance, um, when people's sacred values
are violated, they tend to get outraged, right? They
tend to, to get angry, sometimes they get disgusted.
And um we have some evidence that this makes
them more intransigent, less willing to compromise, and also
more willing to act. Mhm. Right.
But do you think that we need sacred values,
or that in some way it's inevitable that we
will always have some sacred values?
Yes, I do. And that's because uh we live
in a community, and sacred values are what represent
a community. So my last book, um, The Knowledge
Illusion, uh, which I wrote with Phil Fernbach, was,
um, essentially an argument that the human mind is
designed to operate within a community. We depend on
others for our thinking. Um, AND it's obvious that
communities are incredibly important to us socially, right? We,
we couldn't survive without communities, right? So, so what
we define as our community, who we accept as
members of our community, is extremely important to us,
and I would argue that communities are largely defined
by their sacred values. So if you dissent from
a particular sacred value that your community holds, then
you're essentially putting your status in the community in
danger.
And tell us more about how sacred values can
be dangerous and what are their drawbacks.
Well, um, as I've already said, uh, sacred values
can be dangerous because we treat them in absolute
terms. And when, and, and what that means is
we're not willing to make trade-offs. We're not willing
to allow that there are other interests that we
may have, that other people may have, and that
we have to compromise a little bit. So, you
know, if we believe that fighting for a piece
of land is, is sacred, then we're not gonna
broker any compromise. And as a result, we're gonna
be willing to fight perhaps to the death. Um,
WE'RE not gonna care about the, the welfare of
the people on the other side of the dispute.
Um, And uh so we're gonna take actions and
um and be unwilling to compromise, be intransigent in
a way that is just gonna increase extremism and
increase polarization and lead to conflict.
And how does utilitarian decision making play out? How
do people reason in terms of consequences?
So, so that's a huge question, and, you know,
I, I, I teach a whole course on that,
books and books, and there's a whole field of
study, many fields of study really, that focus on
that. So I, I'm, I can't give a complete
answer to that question. Um, BUT the general idea,
uh, that, that I try to spell out in
my book is that when you focus on consequences,
first of all, you're immediately faced with trade-offs, right,
because any action has costs and benefits, you know,
the cost may be something as simple as it
uses energy. But if you're really doing a serious
consequentialist analysis, you take that into account. You take
all the costs and benefits into account. And it's
important to understand that that's a really complex business,
right? That it's really hard to consider all of
the costs of what are the costs? What's the
set? How confident can we be that a particular
action is gonna lead to those costs. And similarly
with benefits. So there's a lot of uncertainty involved
in consequentialist analysis. As I said, there's a lot
of causal reasoning involved in consequentialist analysis. There's a
lot of internal study involved, because often the hardest
thing about making a decision is knowing what you
want, right? Knowing how you want to trade off
costs and benefits. What's really important to you, is
the thing that's most important to you, your own
benefit, or is it someone else's benefit? Is it
your child's benefit, or your parents' benefit, or the
benefit of your community? And often we run into
these conflicts, right? Uh, LIKE, commons dilemmas is, is
a particular example of a kind of conflict between
individual benefit and social benefit. So if we're being
fully consequentialist, we have to consider all this stuff.
Now, of course, Most consequentialist decision making involves simplification,
right? And, you know, one form of simplification, sort
of the ultimate form of simplification, is just to
ask somebody else to make the decision for you,
right? We, we outsource decisions. Um, BUT there are
lots of things in between, lots of simplification strategies
in between. So I would actually characterize Decision making
by sacred values as also a form of simplification.
It's, it uses different criteria than the consequentialist criteria,
but it's, it's a simplification strategy, because it ignores
consequences, and merely evaluates whether an action is right
or wrong, which in general, could be a complicated.
Thing, but the way humans do it is generally,
we just get our sense of right and wrong
action from our families or from our communities. Um,
SO we don't necessarily engage in a lot of
reasoning.
But is it that people generally tend to make
decisions based on sacred values, or are there specific
instances where they er go with decisions based on
consequences?
So sacred values, I, you know, I, I think
of only really applying um in an important way
when uh we're, we're deciding among political options or
social options. Like you could say, like, consider someone
who just wears blue shirts, right? This is the
way they simplify their life. I'm not gonna think
about the consequences of the color of shirt that
I wear. I'm just gonna wear a blue shirt.
I mean, I guess you could argue that in
some sense, that's a sacred value, because it's a
value associated with an action, and it is absolute,
right? Cause you always do it, and you don't
broker any kind of um um alternative considerations. Um,
BUT generally, when we're thinking about sacred values, we're
thinking about values that, um, affect, uh, actions that
pertain to other people, that are relevant to our
community, that our community endorses. So, if we're making,
uh, decisions like whether or not to cross the
street, generally, that's gonna be a consequentialist decision, right?
Like, what am I gonna achieve by crossing the
street? If we're um purchasing toothpaste, then we're generally
gonna make that based on consequences, right? Which is
gonna clean my teeth teeth best, which is gonna
cost me the least money, which, those are all
consequences. So I would say that most everyday decisions
uh certainly have a basis in, in consequentialism, and
often are made on a consequentialist basis.
Um, AND I mean, do you think that there
are, uh, apart from the instances that you referred
there where people tend to go with sacred values
and the other situations where they go with, uh,
consequentialism, uh, do you think that there are instances
where people should make decisions based on sacred values?
Sure, um, whenever I have a sacred value, I
think that people should make decisions based on my
sacred values, right? So, I think that, um, people
should not murder. And I think people should treat
others with respect. And I think that, um, you
know, people should aim towards uncovering the truth. All
of these things are sacred values of mine, and,
uh, and I think that others should, you know,
obey them too. Obviously, not everybody does. Um, SO
the general point is that When our community. Holds
things sacred. Then there's a strong force um impelling
us to hold those things sacred ourselves. Um, EITHER
because we actually think that it's the right thing
to do, so we should not murder regardless of
what we could gain or what anybody could gain
materially from it. But beyond that, if I do
murder, then I'm separating myself from my community. And
that's presumably not something that I should do unless
there's really good reason for it.
Right. Uh, SO let me ask you, because in
the book at a certain point you also talk
about, uh, causality. I mean, uh, why is the
topic of causality important in the context of your
book and how do people think about causality?
So it's important because it's the essence of consequentialist
decision making. I actually feel that this has not
been fully appreciated by people who study decision making.
But the the First step, or the second step,
I guess one has to take when making a
decision, is to figure out if I, so when
you're making a decision, you have a set of
options in front of you. You can think of
each option as an action, right? I will take
this flavor of ice cream, or this other flavor
of ice cream, or this other flavor of ice
cream. And the way you make the decision on
a consequentialist basis is to deduce what the potential
consequences of each action are. And that's a matter
of causal reasoning, right? If I take this, the
action is a cause, and the consequences are effects.
Some are good, we call those benefits, others are
not so good, we call them costs. Um, YOU
know, if you're thinking about a decision like whether
or not to go to war, this is incredibly
obvious, right? Because if you do go to war,
well, you have to reason about what the causal
consequences will be, right? What, where will I get
the material, where will I get the weapons, where
Will I get the human power to engage in
war, you know, what should I do? What, what
options do I have about strategy and tactics? And
if I engage in one strategy or tactic, then
what will happen? Those are consequences. Uh, AND, and
there are consequences, not just in the short term,
but also in the medium term, and also in
the long term. And there are consequences of those
consequences. So, there's a lot of reasoning to do.
And it's all a form of causal reasoning. So,
The second part of your question was, how do
people engage in causal reasoning, and, you know, like
other things, there, there's not a simple answer to
give, um. We We're, we're able to understand and
to think about the fact that causes produce effects,
and what does that mean? That, you know, one
thing we understand is that means if the cause
were different, then the effect would be different. In
other words, causal reasoning is closely associated with counterfactual
reasoning, with reasoning about alternative possible worlds. You can't
really engage in causal reasoning if you can't also
engage in counterfactual reasoning, reasoning. Because we are the
source of our actions, um, we can think about
our actions as interventions in the world. In other
words, um, we as agents are making decisions that
we can describe as decisions made using our free
will, and that has implications for what the consequences
of our decisions will be. So there's a lot
of sophistication in our causal reasoning. That said, it's
important to understand that we actually are very limited
in in our ability to to reason causally. So,
We're limited in the number of causal pathways we
consider. We generally only consider a single causal pathway,
and neglect alternative causal pathways, right? Like, if we
see that the lawn is wet, and that the
sprinkler is turned on, then we assume that the
sprinkler made the lawn wet, and we don't even
consider the possibility that there might have been a
rainstorm, while we weren't looking, right? Um, MOST of
the time that's fine. Most of the time that
works, but sometimes it leads us into trouble. We
just assume that we understand the cause of things
when in fact, there are alternative causes. Another important
limitation on our causal reasoning is that um we
don't understand things in great detail. We think we
understand how things work better than we do. Uh,
THIS, this was actually the topic of my last
book, The Knowledge Illusion. So the knowledge illusion is
just that, the fact that we think we understand
things better than we do. Um. And there's, you
know, some strong evidence to, to suggest that. But
essentially what it shows is that um, Our understanding
of common objects, of historical objects, of other people,
of political policies, of almost anything you can name,
that our understanding is, is limited. And essentially the
way to discover this about yourself, or to show
it in someone else, is to ask them to
explain, right? Take your favorite policy, and, and And
say, now why does this policy lead to any
consequence that I think it leads to? Uh, AND,
and try to spell out in complete detail how
the policy leads to consequences. What most people discover
most of the time, unless they happen to be
experts on the policy, is that they just can't,
that their explanations are incredibly uh weak and limited
and shallow. And so this punctures their illusion that
they understand things um as well as they thought.
So just like everything else, causal reasoning. IS an
element of a community. We depend on other people
for our causal reasoning, reasoning, just as much as
we depend on what's going on inside our own
skulls.
But do you think that then because of our
limitations when it comes to causal reasoning and I
mean there might be even complex situations where we
establish wrong causal relationships between certain behaviors and outcomes
because they are very. Complicated or we might uh
think that something will happen because we do something
but then something unexpected gets in the way and
we don't get the outcome we wanted. I mean,
do you think that perhaps there are situations where
a consequentialism might fail us?
Oh, absolutely, absolutely, yeah, yes, uh, great, it's, it's
a great point, um. So we are definitely limited
in our ability to reason consequentially. Um, I think
the critical question with regard to the thesis of
my book is, is that a justification for not
trying, right? Is that a justification for reasoning based
only on sacred values? Mhm. And look, I mean,
sometimes it may be, like when it comes, you
know, back to the murder example. If you think
that, you know, thou shalt not murder, and that's
a sacred value to you, then if you're given
the opportunity to murder, I think it's perfectly perfectly
reasonable to say, You know, the any consequentialist thought
that I engage in is really gonna miss the
point, um, because it's gonna be approximate, it's gonna
be error prone, it's not gonna be able to
deal with all the uncertainty in the situation. So
therefore, I will just operate on the basis of
this simple principle. I will not murder. And I,
I actually think that makes a lot of sense.
Right, um, I don't think that that sort of
reasoning applies. Uh, IN most of the cases in
which there is real social debate, um, you know,
in any country that, that, that you choose to
name. So, um, you know, pick a topic where
I live in the United States. So in the
United States, um, there's a question about whether we
should impose tariffs on other countries. Yes. And, you
know, personally, I think our president treats it as
a sacred value, right, that yes, we shall impose
tariffs, that's the right thing to do. I don't
believe he thinks through the consequences of that imposition
at all. And I think that that is very
alarming, and has caused all sorts of damage, and
continues to cause all sorts of damage. So If
you're engaged in um in politics, if you're trying
to improve society, you can't simply rely on pat
sacred values that everybody accepts, or that that your
community accepts. Rather, You know, particularly if there's disagreement,
right? So if there's disagreement about sacred values, then
there's a sense in which the only, all you
have is a consequentialist analysis, right? But if you're
gonna take actions, um, as a group, then I
think it's your responsibility to think about what the
consequences of those actions will be.
I mean, I, I also get the sense, and
please correct me if I'm wrong, that uh consequential
is more a sort of consequentialist kind of decision
making also is more uh cognitively demanding, correct?
Absolutely, yes. When I earlier when I said that
sacred values are a form of uh uh are
a way to simplify decision making, that's, that's what
I meant. Um, WHEN being able to ignore outcomes
sure makes decision making easier. If you're considering outcomes,
well, that's demanding. That's cognitively demanding, that can be
demanding in other ways too. It's socially demanding, right?
Because it requires a much more sophisticated conversation. You
know, this is, this is actually relevant, uh, to,
I think one of the important dynamics that that
rules society, that rules the world, which is that
extremists control the conversation often. And one reason that
extremists control the conversation is because they deal in
these simplified slogans that appeal to sacred values, rather
than in the complexity that actually governs the world.
Right? So if I can say, oh, abortion is,
is evil because um it's a form of murder,
and therefore we should never engage in it. Or
if I say, well, a woman has a right
to choose, and so therefore, we should make abortion
legal. REGARDLESS of both of those extremist positions, ignore
the fact that abortion has real consequences for real
people and not just on the baby, but on
the mother and on potentially on the father and
on society in general. And so to have a
real serious conversation about it requires not appealing to
the extreme sacred values, but rather engaging in a
very difficult, complicated conversation in which there are all
sorts of values, consequentialist values that one might disagree
about, and which have to be worked through.
So do you think that's probably one of the
reasons why these sort of more populist narratives, particularly
the ones we're seeing now on the right, tend
to be more, I mean, actually popular among people
and more easy to convince people of them than
the more nuanced and elaborated, uh, I mean, actual
explanations as to why they're going through the problems
they're dealing with.
Absolutely, you know, I think uh in the states,
um, attitudes towards immigration on the right, for instance,
um, really don't take the facts into account at
all, right? I mean, there are all sorts of
implications about immigration, including Um, you know, the, the
availability of farm workers, and the availability of other
manual laborers, and housing construction, and the availability of
academics, and, you know, the progress of our institutions
of higher learning, as well as major corporations that
depend on Um, great minds from around the world.
So yeah, immigration is, is a very complicated issue
when you seriously think about what its consequences are.
But instead, the right just, no immigration, let's limit
it. Let's throw them out of the country. I
mean, it's obviously, in my mind, a, a ridiculous
and oversimplified sacred value. But let me be clear,
this isn't, I'm not, uh, I wouldn't rant just
about the right. The left has its own sacred
values that I think are problematic.
Could you give us some examples?
Um, SURE, I think that, um, Thinking that equity
is the only important thing, and that all decisions
should be made based on equity, um, with, without
serious consideration of merit. Uh, IS, is a value
on the left that, um, has, has caused a
lot of problems, um, and that has weakened, uh,
our institutions and made it difficult for some, you
know, very, very capable people of, um, making the
contributions that, that they're capable of making.
Mhm. So let me ask you now, because I
mean, the way we've been talking about this sort
of decision making, uh, it might seem as though
it all operates on a conscious level, but I
mean, probably most of it. Actually operates on a
subconscious level, right? So, uh, I mean, in what
way should we deal with processes that operate at
the subconscious level when it comes to sacred values
and consequentialism?
Yeah, that's, that's a great question, um. So, I
completely agree that the vast majority of cognitive processing
is unconscious, and we're only aware of the sort
of tip of the iceberg. That, that's the one
sense, and I, I, I think that Sigmund Freud
was correct about, about the mind, right? Um, So,
I think one thing that would be helpful is
for us simply to try to make each other
more aware of how we're making decisions. So that
my purpose, my main purpose in writing the book,
was to say, look, you, right? Me, everybody around
us is making these decisions without thinking through the
consequences. Let's try to relax our reasoning by sacred
values a little bit, in order to focus on
consequences some more. And um that requires making certain
unconscious processes conscious. Um, You know, it's worth understanding
what triggers sacred values. So there's been a fair
amount of work on this. Jonathan Haidt is very
famous for some of these observations, but a variety
of people have contributed to our understanding of how
we respond um to certain situations with anger or
disgust. And those emotions elicit sacred values, right? So.
Disgust is uh a In, in the context of
behavior, is sort of equivalent to outrage. When we're
disgusted by an action, we're outraged by that action.
Or if the action makes us angry, then we
also become outraged by the action. And, and then
we dig in our heels, and we become intransigent,
and we're more willing to go out there and,
and fight the bad guy, right, who, who caused
this outrage by violating our sacred values. So I
think to the extent we can become more aware
of that cycle of responses, of our emotional reactions,
the source of the emotional reaction, and what are
um role is in that dynamic, we, we can
exert a little more control. Um, YOU know, so
in the book, I argue that we can think
about sacred values as a kind of addiction. They're
sort of like, you know, cocaine, in the sense
that there's something that we need to have satisfied.
And when it's not being satisfied, then we have
a bodily response. And, and we react by get
by focusing more and more on what it is
that we want. And, you know, having stronger and
stronger physiological responses that sort of demands to be
satisfied in a particular way. And, you know, and
I think it's, it's learned behavior in a way,
in the same way that uh addiction to substances,
or to gambling, or, you know, to work, um
is learned behavior. So, you know, I do think
that uh trying to make ourselves As conscious as
we can about what it is that's governing our
our behavior, can profit us, but also profit society
more generally.
OK, so I have one last question then. Is
it possible, and I'm not sure I'm going to
use the correct verb here, but is it possible
to cure a sacred value?
So, yeah, I mean, I think that you, we,
we should be careful about use of that verb,
right, to cure, because the last thing I wanna
argue is that we shouldn't have sacred values. If
someone who has no sacred values is often called
a psychopath. Right. Um, You know, what I, what
I like to say is I wouldn't have a
friend who had no sacred values. Our sacred values
identify us, identify our social selves, and the kind
of people we wanna be, um, are, are. Captured,
represented to a large degree by our sacred values.
So, so I don't think cure is the right
word. What I've been arguing is that we should
frame issues less in terms of sacred values and
more in terms of consequences, and that will lead
to less conflict in the world. Um, AND less
polarization. So it's certainly fair to ask, how can
we do that? Um, IS it possible to reframe
issues from sacred value to consequentialist frames? And I
think the answer is clearly yes. So as individuals,
we can do it um through the process of
explanation. As soon as we engage in an effort
to explain what how a behavior came to be,
and what the behavior will lead to, well, you
can only do that from a consequentialist frame. So
we're naturally. Changing the discourse to one about consequentialism.
It's really hard to do that as an individual,
because, you know, we're just busy leading our lives,
and we have all these pressures and things that
we have to respond to, and we can't, in
addition, or it's very hard in addition to tell
ourselves, well, now I have to engage in a
process of explanation at any moment, right? I mean,
there's just not enough time in the day for
that. But what we can do is try to
change the discourse as a society. So that we're
asking people consequentialist questions. We're asking people how they
know things, and what the implications would be. And,
and what the justification for what they're saying is.
And, and if that became. Um, A norm, right?
If it became more. Uh, ACCEPTABLE for us to
ask those sorts of probing, difficult, and even boring
questions, right? Rather than just engaging in sloganizing and
trying to cause outrage, and trying to put everybody
else's behavior in the worst possible light by demonstrating
how they're violating something you really care about, which
is, you know, what Uh, cable TV does in
the states and, and probably around the world, and,
and in fact, it's what political parties do for
the most part. They try to cause outrage. If
instead, we engaged in boring, tedious analysis, We might
be less titillated. But we would live in a
much freer and more productive society, I think.
Uh, BUT do you think that, uh, it would
be possible looking at the sort of cognitive limitations
we've been exploring here today, it would be possible
for us to turn that into a social norm?
Um, SURE, I, there are all sorts of examples
of how that's been turned into a social norm.
So, uh, in the legal system, that's a social
norm, right? Um, TO, to engage in boring analysis
and weigh the evidence and think about what the
consequences of actions are, and, um, in philosophy seminars,
it's a social norm. In, in, in. Effective, successful
engineering companies, it's a social norm. Mhm. And, you
know, certain, um, Uh, political entities that have proven
to be more moderate and less, uh, governed by
outrage, um, I, I think it's a social norm.
So, yes, I, I, not only do I think
it's possible, I think it has happened. That's sort
of what the Enlightenment, a couple of centuries ago,
was an attempt to uh to do for everybody.
Great. So the book is again The Cost of
Conviction How Our Deepest Values Lead Us astray. I'm
leaving a link to it in the description of
the interview and Doctor Sloman, uh, apart from the
book, where can people. On the
internet. Oh, well, uh, I have a website. If
they look up uh Sloman Lab, um S L
O M A N L A B, they, they
should find it. Um AND I have various uh
talks and interviews and um uh editorials that I've
written that you can find on, on that website.
And there's also a link to uh my more
academic work.
OK, great. I'm also leaving links to that in
the description and thank you so much for taking
the time to come on the show. It's been
a real pleasure to talk with you.
Well, thank you. It's been a real pleasure to
talk with you too. And again, I really appreciate
the invitation and I hope it was uh a
valuable use of your listeners' time.
Hi guys, thank you for watching this interview until
the end. If you liked it, please share it,
leave a like and hit the subscription button. The
show is brought to you by Enlights Learning and
Development done differently. Check their website at enlights.com and
also please consider supporting the show on Patreon or
PayPal. I would also like to give a huge
thank you to my main patrons and PayPal supporters,
Perergo Larsson, Jerry Muller, Frederick Sundo, Bernard Seyaz Olaf,
Alex, Adam Cassel, Matthew Whittingbird, Arnaud Wolff, Tim Hollis,
Eric Elena, John Connors, Philip Forrest Connolly. Then Dmitri
Robert Windegerru Inai Zu Mark Nevs, Colin Holbrookfield, Governor,
Michel Stormir, Samuel Andrea, Francis Forti Agnun, Svergoro, and
Hal Herzognon, Michel Jonathan Labran, John Yardston, and Samuel
Curric Hines, Mark Smith, John Ware, Tom Hammel, Sardusran,
David Sloan Wilson, Yasilla Dezaraujo Romain Roach, Diego Londono
Correa. Yannik Punteran Ruzmani, Charlotte Blis Nicole Barbaro, Adam
Hunt, Pavlostazevski, Alekbaka, Madison, Gary G. Alman, Semov, Zal
Adrian Yei Poltonin, John Barboza, Julian Price, Edward Hall,
Eddin Bronner, Douglas Fry, Franco Bartolatti, Gabriel P Scortez
or Suliliski, Scott Zachary Fish, Tim Duffy, Sanny Smith,
and Wisman. Daniel Friedman, William Buckner, Paul Georg Jarno,
Luke Lovai, Georgios Theophanous, Chris Williamson, Peter Wolozin, David
Williams, Di Acosta, Anton Ericsson, Charles Murray, Alex Shaw,
Marie Martinez, Coralli Chevalier, Bangalore atheists, Larry D. Lee
Junior. Old Eringbon. Esterri, Michael Bailey, then Spurber, Robert
Grassy, Zigoren, Jeff McMahon, Jake Zul, Barnabas Raddix, Mark
Kempel, Thomas Dovner, Luke Neeson, Chris Story, Kimberly Johnson,
Benjamin Galbert, Jessica Nowicki, Linda Brendan, Nicholas Carlson, Ismael
Bensleyman. George Ekoriati, Valentine Steinmann, Per Crawley, Kate Van
Goler, Alexander Ebert, Liam Dunaway, BR, Massoud Ali Mohammadi,
Perpendicular, Jannes Hetner, Ursula Guinov, Gregory Hastings, David Pinsov,
Sean Nelson, Mike Levin, and Jos Necht. A special
thanks to my producers Iar Webb, Jim Frank Lucas
Stinnik, Tom Vanneden, Bernardine Curtis Dixon, Benedict Mueller, Thomas
Trumbull, Catherine and Patrick Tobin, John Carlo Montenegro, Al
Nick Cortiz, and Nick Golden, and to my executive
producers, Matthew Lavender, Sergio Quadrian, Bogdan Kanis, and Rosie.
Thank you for all.